# Machine Learning Solutions To Support Pet Adoption

### This GitHub repo is a collaborative final project for University of Arizona's Data Analytics Bootcamp.
#### Authors: Elizabeth S., Jagrati Joshi, Natalie Smith, Ran Wei, and Veronica Nixon

#### We were concerned by the pet rescue crisis that unfolded during the 2021 winter storms in Austin, Texas and across the south and geared our final project towards exploring machine learning tools and data visualization approaches to support pet rescue and adoption efforts. Using pubicly available data from PetFinder.com and the Austin ___ we experimented with a variety of machine learning and data visualization solutions to learn about the pet adoption situation in Texas and to create tools to help people connect more easily with adoptable pets.

-Tableau visualizations of the effect of the storm event on adoptions in Austin, Texas:  https://public.tableau.com/profile/elizabeth6995#!/vizhome/FinalProject_16139367348930/PreCovidIntakeType

-Machine Learning system to ...Google Colab link https://colab.research.google.com/drive/18NWDO0fNvS1vZCc0lJHvwY1PTKhxAA74?usp=sharing

-"Pic-A-Pet": A machine learning system that provides an interactive experience similar to Tinder or Pandora where prospective pet adopters can vote pets up and down and get iteratively improved recommendations. This system is currently under construction. The code for the system can be viewed in the Pic-a-pet_Recommender_ML_System directory.

-Pet Chat Bot: Users have an interactive conversation with an ML-powered bot to describe the pet they are looking for. At the end of the conversation, users receive the top 5 best matches and links to the pets on PetFinder.com.

-Responsive questionnaire: Users are prompted with an initial question about the pet they are looking for. As they respond to questions, new questions are generated by the machine learning system to efficiently gather pet preference information and recommend appropriate pets.

-Time to adoption predictions: 

Key software, languages, libraries, and other technologies used: Python, sklearn library, Python CountVectorizer tool, Python cosine_similarity tool, HTML/CSS/JavaScript, Python Flask library, Python numpy library, Pandas, json, MongoDB Cloud, PyMongo, natural language toolkit, tensorflow, 

INSERT SCREENSHOTS OF PROJECT PAGES HERE?
